---
title: "Modern Vim: Neovim in 2022"
description: Vim is more powerful than you thought
date: 2022-10-14
publish: true
---

import { PostLayout } from '../../../components/blog/PostLayout.tsx'

# Modern Vim: Neovim in 2022

**This is a WIP article**

I have been using Neovim for almost 4 years. I started using Neovim during my second
semester of CS studies, and I found the editor to be magical in terms of how I could
express how I want to edit code in Vim's own "language", which felt very ergonomic. It
certainly improved my text editing speed and comfort, but what's the point of talking
about Vim in 2022? Most editors far outperform Vim with tooling, extensions and generally
better language support, right?

Enter Neovim, a fork of Vim which was created in 2014, which today is the only reasonable
version of Vim to call "modern".

In this article I will try to make the case that Neovim can rival (and even surpass)
modern editors such as VSCode, and giving a high-level overview of the current plugin
ecosystem which Neovim users should be aware of.

## Neovim: batteries not included

I want to preface this by saying that Neovim is an extendable editor. Terms such as
[Personalized Development Environment](https://youtu.be/QMVIJhC9Veg) has been coined which
puts Neovim closer to Emacs in how you would extend and personalize your editor.

Extensibility runs in the Neovim communities veins, and you cannot expect to have a
VSCode-experience in Neovim without setting up some plugins. 

This is what my Neovim currently looks like:

![Neovim](/myneovim.png)

My config is a purely Lua, modular config, with 46 plugins. That may sound like a lot of
plugins, but most Neovim plugins are pretty minimal. A typical plugin would for example
only implement a new motion for surrounding text, or add Git information in the
sign-column of the window (added, deleted), and many of these are features which are
probably baked into your regular editor. The difference however comes in how you build up
your config and compose these plugins and features into the ultimate editor for you.

Let's look at file-navigation as an example on how you can personalize a workflow. Most
modern editor would probably force you to use a regular file-tree. There is nothing wrong
with using a file-tree, but Neovim doesn't force you into using one if something better
fits your workflow. A good file-tree plugin is
[Neo-tree](https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim), but if you would want to have
more of a fuzzy-finding experience,
[Telescope](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim) is a fantastic plugin. Other
good options for file-navigation is [FZF](https://github.com/ibhagwan/fzf-lua),
[fm-nvim](https://github.com/is0n/fm-nvim) or even just using the built-in Vim commands
and the built-in Netrw navigator.

## Lua and plugin ecosystem

TODO

## LSP

TODO

## Treesitter

TODO


export default ({children}) => <PostLayout>{children}</PostLayout>
